Update history for 2.26.0. (#5242)
TileDB-Inc/TileDB: HISTORY.md

# TileDB v2.26.0 Release Notes

## Breaking behavior

> * The superbuild architecture of the build system has been removed and TileDB is a regular CMake project. Build commands of the form `make && make -C tiledb <targets>` will have to be replaced by `make <targets>`. [#5021](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5021)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The superbuild architecture of the build system has been removed and TileDB is now a single-level CMake project. Build commands of the form `make && make -C tiledb <targets>` will have to be replaced by `make <targets>`. [#5021](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5021)
```

## Breaking C API changes

* All deprecated C and C++ APIs were removed. [#5146](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5146)

## New features

> * Enable array open v2 and query v3 by default. [#5207](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5207)

Reviewer: This is in 2.25: https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5208

* Add support for getting the datatype of a ndrectangle dimension. [#5229](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5229)
* Add dim num support for ndrectangle. [#5230](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5230)

## Improvements

> * Output of `schema.dump()` in TileDB-Py is not captured by Jupyter. Replacing `dump` functions with `operator<<` overloads will give the ability to print the resulted string from Python. [#5026](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5026)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added new functions to write schema dump to a string rather than stdout, so that non-console interactive environments such as Jupyter will be able to capture and print the output [#5026](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5026)
```

This should also go in the C API section with the new C API name.

> * The version of OpenSSL linked to the release artifacts was updated to 3.1.4, and moving forward will be synced to the vcpkg `builtin-baseline`. [#5174](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5174)

Reviewer: Should probably go in a separate `Build System` section?

* Improve dense read performance for small reads. [#5145](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5145)
* Skip caching redirect uri on array create. [#5224](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5224)

## Deprecations

* Warn users using dense arrays with sparse fragments. [#5116](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5116)

## Defects removed

* Fix fragment consolidation to allow using absolute URIs. [#5135](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5135)
* Reset offsets in buffer list for retries. [#5220](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5220)
* Fix symbol clashes between `tiledb` and `pyarrow` by building the AWS SDK with its internal symbols hidden. [#5223](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5223)

## Configuration changes

> * The `sm.use_refactored_readers` config option is no longer recognized. Refactored readers are used by default. To use the legacy reader, set the `sm.query_(dense|sparse_global_order|sparse_unordered_with_dups)_reader` config option (depending on the reader you are using) to `legacy`. [#5183](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5183)

Reviewer: Is using the old option an error?

Author: It's just ignored.

* Add ctx to CurrentDomain CAPI. [#5219](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5219)

## Build System Changes

> * The superbuild architecture of the build system has been removed and TileDB is a regular CMake project. Build commands of the form `make && make -C tiledb <targets>` will have to be replaced by `make <targets>`. [#5021](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/pull/5021)

Reviewer 2: That should be moved to breaking changes.
